The President: Hi, everybody.
This weekend is Memorial
Day-a time to pay tribute
to all our men and women in
uniform who've ever given
their lives so that we can
live in freedom and security.
This year, the holiday is
especially meaningful.
It's the first Memorial
Day since our war ended
in Afghanistan.
On Monday, at
Arlington Cemetery,
I'll join our Gold Star
families, veterans,
and their loved ones to
remember all our fallen
heroes, including the
more than 2,200 American
patriots who gave their
lives in Afghanistan.
And I plan to share a
few of their stories.
Growing up in Arizona, Wyatt
Martin loved the outdoors.
To him, a great day was
a day spent fishing.
After high school, he
enlisted in the Army because
he believed that the blessings
he enjoyed as an American
came with an obligation to
give back to his country.
Ramon Morris was
born in Jamaica,
and as a teenager
came to Queens.
Like so many proud
immigrants, he felt
a calling to serve his new
country and joined the Army.
He fell in love, got
engaged, and the thing
he wanted most was to make
the world safer for his
three-year-old daughter.
In their lives,
Specialist Wyatt Martin
and Sergeant First Class
Ramon Morris travelled
different paths.
But in December, their
paths intersected
as the final two
Americans to give their
lives during our combat
mission in Afghanistan.
This weekend also reminds
us that, around the world,
our men and women in
uniform continue to serve
and risk their lives.
In Afghanistan, our
troops now have a new
mission-training and
advising Afghan forces.
John Dawson was
one of them.
From Massachusetts, he loved
the Bruins and the Pats.
In April, he gave his life
as an Army combat medic-the
first American to give his
life in this new mission.
This Memorial Day, we'll
honor Corporal Dawson
as well.
Like generations of
heroes before them,
these Americans gave
everything they had-not
for glory, not even
for gratitude, but for
something greater
than themselves.
We cannot bring them back.
Nor can we ease the pain of
their families and friends
who live with their loss.
But we are the Americans
they died to defend.
So what we can do-what we
must do-is fulfill our sacred
obligations to them, just like
they fulfilled theirs to us.
We have to honor
their memory.
We have to care
for their families,
and our veterans who
served with them.
And as a nation, we have
to remain worthy of their
sacrifice-forever committed
to the country they loved
and the freedom they
fought for and died for.
Thank you, have a
wonderful weekend,
and may God bless our fallen
heroes and their families.